---
Title:	The bear necessities
Date:	2014-04-25T21:50+PDT
---

Onwards from Auburn I knew I had to reach Colfax before it got dark. I was getting more concerned about bears and cougars as the woods surrounded me. My sister had told me that if you sang loudly on the trail the bears tended to keep out of your way. I knew that my singing probably would be enough to ward off a bear. Being a Yorkshireman wearing a Yorkshire Grand Depart top, I loudly sang "On Ilkla Moor Bah't 'At" and immediately felt better. I mentioned it on Twitter and a couple of minutes later my friend Chris asked if I took requests. [He suggested the Bare Necessities](https://twitter.com/chrisenorth/status/459809824252129283). I sang it for the next 10 miles (and actually quite a lot during the rest of the trip).

It was still raining though and my bottom half and feet were wet. As I got higher the temperature was dropping and my feet became more and more of concern. The approach to Colfax seemed to consist of a sudden very steep uphill and over the freeway. I more or less stumbled into the motel and as soon as I'd paid and filled in the registration card I rushed to a warm shower where I spent at least 20 minutes warming up. California may be in drought but the skies had been showering me all day so I didn't feel guilty about using the precious water. Plus parts of my feet had gone purple and that isn't a good sign. 

Five minutes after the shower I was concerned to find my torso and upper legs look as though I'd been rolling around in a nettle patch. A quick self-diagnosis online (never wise) suggested it was hives and therefore could be treated over the counter the next day. I'd just have to put up with the itching for the night.

I had some very welcome fish and chips and peanut butter shake at the Colfax Max diner and made good use of their wifi as the motel's wifi wasn't working.