---
Title:	To Vienna
Date:	2015-05-31T21:00:00+0200
---

Packing up my tent I had to deal with ants crawling over all my stuff 
again. I wish we could come to a peace negotiation. I headed off along 
the pleasant EV6 into an impressive valley cut by the mighty river. The 
EV6 goes along both banks at this point but I stuck to the south side 
reasoning it would provide more shade for me and better lighting of the 
north for photos. It was very pleasant and I stopped for breakfast at a 
little cafe where I was the only customer early on a Sunday morning. 
Enjoyable miles took me to Ybbs where there were lots of signs along the 
trail advertising a bicycle museum. Unfortunately for me, and the other 
cyclists who'd had their interest piqued, it was shut on a Sunday. If 
only I'd been a day earlier like Stevens.

Onwards to Melk and the 
impressive monastery Stevens had mentioned. It certainly was big. Here I 
had to deal with clueless tourists pouring out of a Viking River Cruise 
boat into the cycle path. Then I got surrounded by a similarly unaware 
group of perhaps 20 touring cyclists all wearing matching green Lycra. 
In trying to get away from them I nearly came off my bike. In Melk I 
enquired at the tourist information about the oldest barbers to see if I 
could find where Thomas had a shave. The lady was confused telling me 
they would be shut. I said it didn't matter. I think she preferred the 
sort of questions from the cruise ship tourists.

After a nice ice cream and a look around, with a heavy heart I left the flat and pretty EV6 to head across country. Unlike the previous 
times though this looked not as hilly. That was true in parts. The cycle 
routes tended to follow the non-hypotenuse sides of triangles with the 
motorway taking the direct route. I reached Neulengbach where Thomas had 
stayed on the Saturday night. It didn't look to have much in the way of 
accommodation and a call to a youth hostel in Vienna indicated their 
reception was 24 hours. I decided I'd press on and catch up. The only 
drawback was that Google Maps should a huge hill. A well placed petrol 
station supplied me with juice as I'd exhausted all my liquid reserves. 
The hill was big but the downhill was glorious and long. It lasted about 
15 miles to Vienna several miles of which I stayed on the tail of a guy 
on a road bike to his surprise.

As I got into the city I found a river side bike path for a few miles. In the city, loads of people were on bikes and there were plenty of bike lanes. I got freaked out by polite motorists giving way when bike lanes crossed roads. UK drivers wouldn't dream of doing that; at least not universally enough to trust that they would. The youth hostel was all the way across the city so it was getting dark as I got there. I'd broken the Imperial century, was exhausted, famished, but had at least caught up with Thomas. And he was giving me a few days off to recover.
