---
Title:	Northward bound
Date:	2017-06-16T18:00:00+BST
---

The adventure 
has begun.

It was an early start this 
morning. Having packed up all my belongings 
and stored them with friends (thanks Noel 
and Anne) and family, I had spent the night 
at my sister's. This morning she made me 
porridge, we said our goodbyes, then [she 
waved me off]().

I rode down to Leeds 
station to get the 06:52 train to 
Manchester airport. I'd booked ahead to get 
a space for my bike but it turned out it 
was full of luggage and none of the owners 
wanted to shift them. So I had to stand 
with my bike for an hour and a half. So 
much for getting some extra sleep on the 
train.

At Manchester airport I had to pack 
my bike into the huge transparent plastic 
bag for the flight. I sat for ages trying 
to get the left-hand pedal off. I tried 
turning both ways but just couldn't budge 
it. Just as I rang a friend for advice, a 
guy who'd been in the queue came over and 
offered a hand. Tom, it turns out, does 
mountain bike training and he managed to 
loosen it. Thanks Tom.

After finally 
getting the bike packed (with bubble wrap 
over important parts) and my panniers 
combined into my Ikea bag, I took 
everything to special baggage. There I met 
a couple of parkrunners from back home. It 
turned out they were off to do the midnight 
marathon in Tromso and were on the same 
flight to Oslo. It's a small world 
(although my legs disagree).

On the flight 
I was sat next to a young couple. One of 
the guys had an old film camera he'd picked 
up on eBay for &pound;3. Apparently you can 
still get film developed at Boots. Who 
knew? It is great to see they are still 
getting used but I'm not sure I'd swap my 
DSLR for one. Half my kit would end up 
being rolls of film.

Touching down at Oslo 
airport the scenery said Norway. The hills, 
the houses, the forests of tall spruce 
trees stretching up to touch us. After a 
few hours at Oslo airport I took my second 
flight on to Kirkenes. A lady at the help 
desk pronounced it "chirk-i-ness" but 
various tannoy announcements said it 
differently so I'm none the wiser. Rather 
concerningly, as I borded the plane I 
glimpsed a bike under the plane but it 
wasn't in a bike bag. Was it mine? I 
couldn't quite tell. Had something happened 
to it? Was I going to be stranded with a 
broken bike? Perhaps I had nothing to worry 
about. Perhaps someone else was cycling the 
route. I hoped that was the answer as I 
nervously drank the little cup of tea they 
gave me on the flight.

Kirkenes is pretty 
much the end of Norway. A few miles further 
and you're in Russia. But that isn't where 
I'm going. For the next four days I head 
northward and westward to Nordkapp. The 
plan is to reach it by the Summer Solstice 
so that I'm at my most northern point at 
the same time as the Sun. After that both 
of us head south.

So, I have over 500km of 
remote countryside to go in four days. I'll 
start tomorrow so that I have chance to 
find supplies in Kirkenes. Most importantly 
I'll need some gas for my camp stove and 
food. Plenty of food.
