---
Title:	John O Groats 
Date:	2017-07-24T23:59+0100
Distance:	53.8 km
Route:	tracks/2017-07-24.geojson
Ferries:	1
Elevation:	441 m
---

I made the most of having a hotel room by sleeping in and having a cooked breakfast. The ferry to John O Groats wasn't until the evening so I pottered about in Kirkwall buying dry bags for my clothes and having some tea in The Reel cafe before visiting St Magnus' cathedral. Then I rode south over the Churchill Barriers to the bottom of South Ronaldsay. Just a few hundred metres from the ferry terminal I could see there wasn't much there so followed a sign to a bistro where I was welcomed by Leona (from Lancashire). Leona was in training for an ultra marathon later in the year. I had a rather small (for a hungry cyclist) portion of rhubarb crumble with custard. After that I went back to the ferry terminal. 

Whilst making myself some sandwiches I was joined by Dave, from Coventry, who had spent the past few weeks cycling around the islands. We were joined by a touring cyclist from Lancaster, called Tony, and a Scottish family on bikes. By the time the ferry arrived there were even more bikes there. We had to lug our bikes up to the top deck because the tide was out at the other side and that is the level we'd be disembarking at. During the trip I chatted to Hanz and Maria from Austria. Amongst the usual conversation topics we also talked about Asterix and Obelix and the specific jokes in different languages.

At John O Groats I disembarked and immediately was at the famous fingerpost. There I got talking to Jack and  who kindly took my picture for me.

I opted to stay at the campsite where I met Dave and Tony again. After dinner, the three of us headed to the local pub to exchange stories of our trips. They were both really interesting with entirely different approaches to what they liked to do on their trips but both united in their appreciation of down jackets. It was a good evening. I was finally in Scotland.


